# FLEXCOM USART Flow Control

This example application shows how to use the FLEXCOM module in USART flow control<br /> mode.

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 Peripheral Library Application Examples for SAMA5D2 Family](GUID-3730E5D6-911C-4BCA-9955-26D7EB66B585.md)

## Description

This application configures FLEXCOM0 in non-blocking mode and FLEXCOM1 in blocking<br /> mode. FLEXCOM0 is used for data transmission and FLEXCOM1 is used for reception. The<br /> TX line of FLEXCOM0 is connected to the RX line of FLEXCOM1. The RTS line of<br /> FLEXCOM1 is connected to the CTS line of FLEXCOM0. FLEXCOM0 transmits 100 characters<br /> using interrupts. Application however simulates a slow receiver by inserting a delay<br /> after each character is read on FLEXCOM1. As a result, once the RX FIFO is full, the<br /> RTS line is de-asserted and transmitter \(FLEXCOM0\) stops sending the data.<br /> Eventually, when the receiver reads out sufficient number of bytes from the RX FIFO,<br /> such that the number of bytes in the FIFO goes below RXFTHRES2, the RTS line is<br /> again asserted and the transmitter continues sending the data. The demo application<br /> indicates success if the received data matches the transmitted data.

## Downloading and Building the Application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp_apps_sam_a5d2) and then<br /> click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file. This content<br /> can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is<br /> **apps/flexcom/usart/flexcom\_usart\_flow\_control/firmware**.

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its<br /> IDE.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|sam\_a5d2\_curiosity.X|MPLABX project for [SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board Kit](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|

## Setting Up AT91Bootstrap Loader

To load the application binary onto the target device, we need to use at91bootstrap<br /> loader. Refer to the [at91bootstrap loader documentation](GUID-DA6B998E-C5DD-4566-BB08-7DC124553FBF.md) for<br /> details on how to configure, build and run bootstrap loader project and use it to<br /> bootstrap the application binaries.

## Setting Up the Hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|sam\_a5d2\_curiosity.X|[SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board Kit](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|

### Setting Up SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board

**SETTING UP THE BOARD**

-   Connect the UART Debug port on the board to the computer using a FTDI to USB cable
-   Connect the Debug USB port on the board to the computer using a Type-C USB cable
-   Make connections as following:
    -   Short pin 5 \(FLEXCOM1\_TXD\) of J8 connector to pin 21 \(FLEXCOM4\_RXD\) of J25 connector.
    -   Short pin 6 \(FLEXCOM1\_CTS\) of J8 connector to pin 26 \(FLEXCOM4\_RTS\) of J25 connector.

## Running the Application

1.  Build the application using its IDE
2.  LED is turned ON on success.

The following table provides the LED name:

|Board|LED Name|
|-----|--------|
|[SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|RGB\_LED \(Green\)|

