# TWIHS MASTER read write

This example application shows how to use the TWIHS peripheral in master mode to write<br /> and read data.

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 Peripheral Library Application Examples for SAMA5D2 Family](GUID-3730E5D6-911C-4BCA-9955-26D7EB66B585.md)

## Description

This example uses the TWIHS peripheral library to write data and read back from TWIHS<br /> slave.

## Downloading and Building the Application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp_apps_sam_a5d2) and then<br /> click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file. This content<br /> can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is<br /> **apps/twihs/slave/i2c\_eeprom\_emulation/firmware**.

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its<br /> IDE.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|sam\_a5d2\_curiosity.X|MPLABX project for [SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board Kit](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|

## Setting Up AT91Bootstrap Loader

To load the application binary onto the target device, we need to use at91bootstrap<br /> loader. Refer to the [at91bootstrap loader documentation](GUID-DA6B998E-C5DD-4566-BB08-7DC124553FBF.md) for<br /> details on how to configure, build and run bootstrap loader project and use it to<br /> bootstrap the application binaries.

## Setting Up the Hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|sam\_a5d2\_curiosity.X|[SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board Kit](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|

Hardware setup requires two boards, one acting as the TWIHS Master and the other as<br /> the TWIHS Slave.

### Setting Up SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board

**SETTING UP THE BOARD**

-   Connect the Debug USB port on the board to the computer using a Type-C USB cable
-   Connect TWIHS SDA line on Pin 11 \(PD4\) of J19 connector and TWIHS SCL line on Pin 12 \(PD5\) of J19 connector with the corresponding SDA and SCL lines of the TWIHS slave.
-   Connect a ground wire between TWIHS Master and TWIHS Slave boards

## Running the Application

1.  Open the twihs\_eeprom application from **_apps/twihs/master/twihs\_eeprom/firmware_** and open the *main.c* file. Make sure the following macro is defined to *false*.

    ``` {#CODEBLOCK_LYB_PWB_3ZB}
    #define I2C_SLAVE_IS_ONBOARD_EEPROM           false
    
    ```

2.  Build the application using its IDE
3.  Run application on TWIHS Slave board and then run the application on TWIHS Master board
4.  The LED indicates the success or failure:
    -   The LED is turned ON when the value read from the TWIHS Slave matches with the written value
    -   The LED is turned OFF when the value read from the TWIHS Slave did not match with the written value

