# SPI Self Loopback DMA

This example application shows how to use the SPI peripheral with DMA to transmit and<br /> receive a block of data.

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 Peripheral Library Application Examples for SAMA5D2 Family](GUID-3730E5D6-911C-4BCA-9955-26D7EB66B585.md)

## Description

This example demonstrates transmit and receive operation over SPI interface using<br /> DMA. Two DMA channels are used - one for transmission and another for reception. The<br /> loop back test requires the MOSI output pin to be connected to the MISO input pin so<br /> that anything transmitted will also be received. The example first transmits 10<br /> bytes and receives 10 bytes. If the received data is same as transmitted then it<br /> transmits 0 bytes and receives 10 bytes. In this case, dummy data will be<br /> transmitted to receive 10 characters, hence all the received data should be 0xFF.<br /> Next, 10 bytes are transmitted and 5 bytes are received. Here, the received bytes<br /> must match the first 5 bytes in the transmit buffer. Finally, 5 bytes are<br /> transmitted and 10 bytes are received. In this case, the first 5 bytes in the<br /> receive buffer must match the first 5 bytes in the transmit buffer. The remaining 5<br /> bytes in the receive buffer must be 0xFF.

## Downloading and Building the Application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp_apps_sam_a5d2) and then<br /> click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file. This content<br /> can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is<br /> **apps/spi/master/spi\_self\_loopback\_dma/firmware**.

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its<br /> IDE.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|sam\_a5d2\_curiosity.X|MPLABX project for [SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board Kit](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|

## Setting Up AT91Bootstrap Loader

To load the application binary onto the target device, we need to use at91bootstrap<br /> loader. Refer to the [at91bootstrap loader documentation](GUID-DA6B998E-C5DD-4566-BB08-7DC124553FBF.md) for<br /> details on how to configure, build and run bootstrap loader project and use it to<br /> bootstrap the application binaries.

## Setting Up the Hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|sam\_a5d2\_curiosity.X|[SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board Kit](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|

### Setting Up SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board

**SETTING UP THE BOARD**

-   Short Pin 5 and Pin 6 of mikroBUS1 connector.
-   Connect the Debug USB port on the board to the computer using a Type-C USB cable

## Running the Application

1.  Build the application using its IDE
2.  LED indicates the success or failure:
    -   The LED is turned ON when the received data matches the transmitted data

Refer to the following table for LED name:

|Board|LED Name|
|-----|--------|
|[SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|RGB\_LED \(Green\)|

