# SPI Ping Pong with DMA

This example application shows how to continuously transmit and receive data over a SPI<br /> interface using ping pong buffers with the DMA.

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 Peripheral Library Application Examples for SAMA5D2 Family](GUID-3730E5D6-911C-4BCA-9955-26D7EB66B585.md)

## Description

DMA peripheral provides support to implement ping-pong buffering. DMA transmits and<br /> receives data from one pair of buffers, when CPU works on the second pair.

When DMA is transmitting data from ping buffer, CPU works on pong buffer. When DMA<br /> completes transfer, it generates an interrupt to indicate transfer completion from<br /> ping buffer. DMA channel is automatically re-initialized to transmit data from pong<br /> buffer while the CPU works on the ping buffer.

When DMA is receiving data to ping buffer, CPU works on pong buffer. When DMA<br /> completes transfer, it generates an interrupt to indicate the availability of data<br /> in the ping buffer. DMA channel is automatically re-initialized to receive data in<br /> the pong buffer while the CPU works on the ping buffer.

Data is transmitted and received in loopback mode by shorting the MISO and MOSI<br /> lines. At the end of transfer, received data is compared with transmitted data to<br /> confirm data match.

## Downloading and Building the Application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp_apps_sam_a5d2) and then<br /> click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file. This content<br /> can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is<br /> **apps/spi/spi\_ping\_pong\_with\_dma/firmware**.

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its<br /> IDE.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|sam\_a5d2\_curiosity.X|MPLABX project for [SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board Kit](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|

## Setting Up AT91Bootstrap Loader

To load the application binary onto the target device, we need to use at91bootstrap<br /> loader. Refer to the [at91bootstrap loader documentation](GUID-DA6B998E-C5DD-4566-BB08-7DC124553FBF.md) for<br /> details on how to configure, build and run bootstrap loader project and use it to<br /> bootstrap the application binaries.

## Setting Up the Hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|sam\_a5d2\_curiosity.X|[SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board Kit](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|

### Setting Up SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board

**SETTING UP THE BOARD**

-   Connect the Debug USB port on the board to the computer using a Type-C USB cable
-   Use a jumper wire to short pin 5 and pin 6 of mikroBUS1 connector

## Running the Application

1.  Build the application using its IDE
2.  LED indicates the success or failure:
    -   The LED is turned ON when the value read matched with the written value
    -   The LED is turned OFF when the value read did not match with the written value

Refer to the following table for LED name:

|Board|LED Name|
|-----|--------|
|[SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|RGB\_LED \(Green\)|

